When I met Rupert, I had always wanted
to start a fourth network because I
thought the three networks were boring.
And he said, "Great." I said, "What do
you mean great?" He said, "Do it." Well,
we have to buy these stations. It cost a
billion
150. And he said, "Do it."
What could be better?
[Music]
When I ask around about you, as I've
done the last couple of days, lots of
mutual friends, the word that comes up
in every single conversation is
curiosity. Usually insatiable curiosity
maybe is the term that people use. Um,
and I love the part in your book about
the time in the William Morris file room
reading everything you possibly could.
Where did the spark come from? Like is
it just innate in you? Has it always
been this way?
>> Curiosity, I absolutely believe is
innate. I mean, I guess people could
try, oh, make me curious, you know?
>> I don't know how you'd go about that. I
think you either have the biology so
much to me is about biology and not
necessarily
willful direction but the idea that you
can pull it from someplace I'm in I've
always been innately curious not
voraciously or crazily just generally
and luckily my curiosity is not like I
want to understand how unwinged
butterflies metastasize eyes. My
curiosity
is in more general interest areas. So,
they've somehow resonated in other parts
of productive life.
>> What did you discover in the file room
that that got you going?
>> Well, I had always been interested in
the entertainment business. So, that's
why I went there to to because I was 19
years old. No one was going to pay
attention to me. So, I thought, where
can I go and
>> or just where can I go? Who would want
me? Uh, I don't think anyone wanted me
at that time for sure. But I thought,
what could I do? And they had a male
room concept, which they brought in
young supposedly sparky people uh, and
trained them to be quote agents. I had
no interest in being an agent. Uh, I
would never ever think I would be
qualified to do that kind of thing or
really have any interest. But what I was
interested in was the entertainment
business. And at the time, William
Morris agency was 70 years old and it
was the leading agency. So it had the
history of entertainment in its file
room
>> and I got lucky enough to be able to
wangle my way to basically read it from
A to Zed. It wasn't curiosity. I was
like I I just read the entire place.
>> What was it about entertainment that
captivated you? Seems like that was the
sort of like the eye of its day in all
the top.
>> I grew up in a a little town, Beverly
Hills. Almost all of my friends parents
were involved in entertainment in one
form or the other. My parents were
involved in construction and building
and finance things like that, the other,
you know, world from entertainment. And
I was just always drawn to it. Always
fascinated me. I liked I was interested
in the people they led.
Definitely interesting lives to say the
least,
>> but no, they also I was also interested
in the mechanics of it. It just it's
like anything, you know, you're drawn to
something.
>> I was drawn to that.
>> In the earliest days, uh when you knew
you did not want to be an agent, but
rather create things. Uh there was this
confrontation in your book, I think you
were 23 years old with Charles Bluorn.
Can you talk about that fight that you
had over over something? Well, what
happened is so I go after I leave
William Morrison and I go to ABC and I'm
23 years old and ABC at the time there
were only three networks and they had
100% of the viewings. They were all each
of these networks were very powerful and
but ABC was kind of run like a candy
store cuz it was the youngest of the
three networks and it hadn't yet
bureaucratized itself. So if you wanted
responsibility, it was there. And
anyway, so I'm in the program department
and no one else was doing it. So my
responsibility was to buy movies from
the major studio producers of movies at
the time to put on television because
that was a big diet of television
watching then was to watch theatrical
movies on television. and Charlie
Bluedorn, this great industrialist of
the 60s and 70s, uh, had bought
Paramount,
uh, and in order to justify his
purchase, he wanted to sell all their
old Turkey movies. And so he convinced
the chairman of ABC
uh in a meeting where he couldn't wait
to get rid of the mad Austrian Charlie
Bluddor uh to uh buy all these movies
and blue the chairman called me up to
his office. I was the only one on the
floor at the time uh and said, "Okay,
you do this."
>> And and I told Mr. Bluedorn after he had
thought he'd clenched this deal to kind
of save his purchase of Paramount
Pictures and I said, "I'm not buying any
of these movies. They're all turkeys and
I'm not doing it."
>> And he fumed at the ears and whatever.
And out of that, we found a way for us
to buy some of the movies and him to
create new movies and to finance the new
movies. And so he got intrigued with me.
>> In that episode, did you discover a
fearlessness in yourself? Well, I
discovered, look, I had I had this one
big fear about sexuality, uh, that kind
of obliterated all other fears.
>> And so, I was not, it turned out, which
I was a total discovery because I didn't
know it, of course, I'd never been in
such confrontations.
>> I had no fear of of business situations.
I I I had this big fear and that made me
take on
>> weaponized
>> everything else. Absolutely. So it was a
kind of secret weapon.
>> It wasn't a thrill to go through and I'm
not so sure I would advise it, but it
was
>> it was fodder for me. So when I came up
against this very powerful and
>> you know some people are quietly
demonstratively
not at face power. He was powerful in
all ways
>> and combustible. He had the biggest
conglomerate of the time
>> uh again uh late 60s 70s and uh he was
so he was probably 40 or something
>> an old man to me. Anyway, I found that I
could argue with him and
>> I wasn't afraid of him.
>> Everybody else was petrified.
>> We're going to talk about the decades
more of that to come. But when I read
your book, I was captivated and amazed
by how clearly you described things in
your early life that so impacted you.
Um, the two that stood out to me were
this. I went to camp and I was horribly
homesick when I went to camp as a kid. I
could just like remember quaking going
to it. And you tell this story about
wanting your mom to pick you up and her
not showing up. Um, and then everything
with your brother. And the way that you
described these two events was just it
just kind of like blew my face off that
you were willing to be this honest in
the book. Um but but but also in a way
that like so many people that have read
the book that I've talked to I don't
know got them talking about their [__]
when they were young.
>> It's really quite amazing to me and I
the reason I wrote the book is because I
thought this is a good story you know I
mean I know story. I know narrative.
I've been telling stories all my life.
>> So I thought it's a good story if I can
tell it true. And I thought, well, do I
want to? And then I thought, well, if
I'm going to do it,
>> why would I not want? I mean, my that
would be crazy. So, that's what I set
out to do. What's really surprised me is
how it seems to have emotionally
resonated with so many people in ways I
would have never expected.
>> Can you talk about what happened in that
camping incident and with your brother
and and the impact that those two things
had on you?
>> I was at this camp and I was eight,
seven, eight, nine. Yes, somewhere in
there. Um, and I was Yes, as you saw, I
didn't want to be there. And the only
person in my dysfunctional family that I
thought I could have any dependence on
was my mother because I certainly
couldn't depend on my father. My brother
was a sadist monster. Uh, and so I I I
said, "Come and get me." And she said,
"Okay, I will come and get you." And it
is a it it is a describable scene of
sitting uh in a in a you know kind of
the part to the entrance of the
campground and whatever on a kind of
near a tree stump and waiting hours for
my mother to come and rescue me. uh and
the waiting of it became this bitter sad
sweet moment of me saying I cannot
depend upon my mother which meant I
can't depend upon anyone other than
myself and it was a resolve that from
that moment on uh I would I would I
would force the world around me that I
was dependent on no one
>> which was at that age a kind of well
kind of harsh but it was a truly
revelatory
moment of being my own savior.
>> How did the need for control evolve
across the rest of your life?
I think it's because, you know, I think
it's because I, you know, I've thought a
lot about that and
I'm I'm not really not that
introspective, but in reading writing
this book, I had to go through
>> thought a lot about that. And because I
had no control
no control over the biggest issue of my
life, which was my emerging and
confusing sexuality.
>> Yeah.
>> And of course, what I wanted to do is
control it. you know, I wanted to say
no, turn it this way instead of that
way. I I want that. I want this or I
wasn't that obviously argumentative in a
subject, but I think we all have stuff
that we would like to control and find
our either ability to control it or not.
Now, many things that come up, you can
control them. So everything else in my
life
>> that I could control, I'd want to sure
try.
>> And and has that gone down at all
through I mean you've been so
successful.
>> It's the same as always.
>> Oh, I think it's even worse or more.
>> How does that manifest today? Like I was
reading about the original moment of
insight around QVC and the two-way
interactivity and now we had you know
you were with probably Sam around the
time of chat GPT and like another moment
>> very luckily because Sam Alman was on
the board of one of our companies
Expedia
>> right
>> and so definitely earlier than most uh
he showed me the magic
>> which was to me magic. It was he
actually I think the first thing he did
he he said to chat GPT tell me the
biography of Barry Diller in Shakespeare
sonnet
>> and it did it
>> and in a millisecond
out of the little
iPhone comes back and I'm telling you of
course and again this is with I had
little prep about what he was doing but
it was friaking magic and I just was
stunned.
>> How did the two compare? Like did it
feel of an order of magnitude even
greater than the QVC moment of
>> Well, the greatest epiphany, I mean, you
know, my own big epiphany was when I
went to, you know, I'd only known
screens, you know, movie screens,
television screens to be uh narrative uh
formats, meaning that that you were
passive. They told you stories. That's
what screens did. I went to QVC and I
saw these primitively interactive
screens
>> that you weren't passive with. You said,
"I like that product." You at the time
punched phone codes and you ordered it
up and televisions and computers and uh
uh tracked it and I thought, "Wow,
screens can be used for something other
than passive experience narrative." Now
this is in '92 so it's 3 years before
the internet gets used by people and
uh of course I didn't see that but what
I saw was interactivity in screens and I
was dumbruck by it
>> probably more so than the because that
wasn't magic chat GPT me was magic
>> this was pragmatic
>> and I thought I don't know how but this
is going to change things
>> and I was just again I think so much of
life and is circumstance and serendipity
moment and whatever by the time the
internet comes along three years later I
had some fluency
>> about it so I was able to make it
productive
>> we'll come back to the the investing
chapter of your career but I want to
flesh out some of these components of
what I'll call like the Barry Diller
model for approaching the world not not
that it's formulaic at all but
>> some concepts like creative conflict
maybe starting with that and your love
of creat creative conflict. Talk talk to
me about what that means and how it
manifests, why it's so valuable.
>> I discovered fairly early that the best
organizational process was to get smart,
snappy people in a room who have opinion
and get them clanging against each other
with their opinion. And out of that
conflict, because that can be
conflicting because people will say,
"Well, I think this about that." and
somebody says, "No, I think that about
that or you're a dope about this or oh
that's you know an interesting insider
whatever whatever." So the more that
that that conflict forges hearing
interesting things, if you're a good
listener, and I'm lucky I can listen. I
can pick out of that some not hidden.
It's just I can pick out of it a truth
or something that I can
>> a
>> roll with something that
>> makes sense to me. Yeah.
>> That I can say, "Whoa, huh, that's a
good idea." because I'm always searching
for an idea and the definition to me of
an idea is it a good idea or a bad idea
and that's obviously editorializing
by instinct and I have always thought
that the best arranging room for that is
a an a a a group of people who are in
conflict with each other
>> usually past their point of endurance
meaning the longer you push it I found
over time that when you push people
somewhat past their endurance when they
like say, "Oh, please can I go home and
you won't let them go home?"
>> interesting things happen after that.
>> The uh the notion of spark and edge
being things that you were searching for
in the people that might be in that room
really interested me. Um spark I think I
understand what how would you think
about edge? What was an edgy person? Ed
is someone who is I don't know define it
better
edgy someone who who who who who who has
some coarseness and I don't mean by
coarseness in in the p pjorative sense I
mean that like like I don't know scratch
paper that you know that that that
creates a spark
>> somebody who's got some I wouldn't call
it you know original thought or whatever
but someone who's willing to be on the
edge of things rather than the common
center of things
>> and and is that related to this notion
of like discontented and willful that
you've talked a lot about
>> discontent is I mean Robert Woodruff was
the chairman of Coca-Cola company uh in
its great formative years once I I mean
it's kind of obvious but he but wasn't
obvious to me when I heard it he said
only give me the discontented
>> those are the people I want in our
organization And it so resonated with me
>> that yes, of course, if you're
>> if you're not discontented and and I
think if I had grown up in a different
environment and I wasn't in this in this
dysfunctional environment that I was in
with all these other issues, I'd
probably end up a shoe clerk. And that's
not a ter this terrible thing,
>> but a little more interesting this way.
Is there a room of creative conflict
that you that most stands out in your
memory where some idea came out of it?
>> Oh, no. They've just been it's so empty.
It's just it's just my life.
>> Yeah. If you think about this notion of
instinct and acting on instinct and not
based on data or research or things like
this, why is that so why is that proven
so powerful to you rather than the
alternative? Because I think well if you
say relative to data
>> and research and all which is it's good
of course when there's a factual base
that research of course can give you the
deepest and draft of that factual base.
But when you're dealing with editorial
matters or new ideas or things that
aren't yet
>> there's no research that can help or
guide you. It can only mislead you
>> because it will essentially tell you
what the past factual base has delivered
to you which has no relevance to a fresh
idea.
>> All it can do is say well here's why it
won't work.
>> Right?
>> That's all it can really based upon this
that and the other thing. It ain't never
going to tell you why it will or should
work because it's not knowable. It's not
researchable. It's purely instinctive.
>> And so the if if that's the realm in
which you want to live the the
productive life, then you really have to
have to try very hard to keep those
instincts of yours as fresh and clean as
you can. Which means you have to fight
cynicism. You have to fight being
sophisticated. You have to hold on to a
certain form even if you make it up of
naive. because it's only when you're in
that state that your instincts can be
applied to determining what is something
interesting or not interesting.
>> One of the things I loved hearing the
story was how once you decided to do
something, you would drill all the way
down to like bedrock foundation and the
essence of something and then build back
up from that understanding. But you know
the thing is which I still amazes me is
I and it's me. I mean there are really
people so much smarter than me who get
stuff so much quicker. For me I have to
go. It's not like I want to. I have to
go all the way down cuz until I can get
to the first little building block I
don't understand it. And there are some
areas that even if I try now certain
obvious areas that that that defy I just
don't have the capacity. But in the
areas that I lived in uh I had to break
everything down to its base block DNA
where I could have the basis
understanding. Just tell me yes. Okay. 2
+ 2 is four.
But I have to really as as demo as that
sounds, I got to get down to those
basics before I can figure out a very
complex transaction. If you give it to
me midway or twothirds of the way, you
know, all the house names people use to
confuse people with everything, it you
never get to understand it. And I can
tell you actually one of my first
revelations was this is I used to have
this is when I'm in my I don't know
probably early
late 20s early 30s and uh and I had at
the time a a kind of a business manager
took care of you know other than I was
in my career life and and I had some
capital and he would be investing it in
like real estate transactions.
and he would come into my office every
four or six months, whatever, and he
would go through something. I was so
bored with it because I didn't
understand the [__] of what he was
talking about. And he would give me this
thing about this deal and whatever. And
I would just basically say, you know, so
I didn't understand what he was really
talking about. I just using language I
didn't understand. And I was, "Yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah." And a couple of years later, he's
doing it to me. And I thought, you know
what? I'm really a total bimbo. I said,
I want to understand this transaction.
I said, so let me now understand it. And
I forced him to explain it from the very
base of it. And he got about halfway
through it and I said, "This is stupid
and I'm not doing it." And I fired him.
And it was my revelation, which is not
that I didn't really know it, that
that's the only way I can function.
>> Yeah. If you think back to the
entertainment days at Paramount and Fox,
what innovation, you were part of so
many of them. What innovation stands out
as the thing you're most proud of to the
extent you are proud of something?
>> I was very lucky. The first real
responsibility that I had was to make
these original movies every week called
the movie of the week which uh changed
television at this time. I'm 25. No one
uh everyone thought this project would
fail and it was my project and it was an
original concept
>> and it the risks were very high and uh
and because everybody thought it would
fail, I got to do it myself.
>> So I built up the fluency to do it and
then we did it and then it succeeded
giantly.
>> Is there any better feeling than owning
something end to end like that?
>> It was just fantastic. It was fantastic
because you know you can kind of I can
drill to the moment when I you know at
that time well you get ratings which was
the initial scorecard you got for
whether you were succeeding or failing
and at that time they came overnight
like at 7 in the morning and you know I
kind of stayed up all night to wait for
this rating and when I heard it in my
ear and it was by the way it was like it
was so big that it was like oh my
freaking god.
We did it
>> and that was
fantastic.
>> Do you remember how many people it was?
Do you remember this stat?
>> Yes. Yeah, I do. It was a 34 something.
So I called 35 rating. Now this means
that there were 100 million households
and this meant that 35 million
households were watching this one little
program
>> which does not happen today.
>> No no no no. See, it's not I mean, yes,
actually, you'll get
>> I guess someone will watch a Tik Tok
>> a mega event will do that, but that's
incredibly rare.
>> A movie every week seems like
logistically impossible. About like
that,
>> everybody thought it was logistically
impossible. We made 25 the first year,
40 or so the next year, and by the third
year, we were making 75 of these a year.
>> This is like impossible.
>> You think people should do more of that?
set impossible goals and then thrive in
the constraint.
>> Of course, it's Yes. I mean, I don't
know. The world will only handle so
many.
>> I'd like to zoom to the Fox days.
>> Oh, sure.
>> What was it like working with Murdoch
when he was facing hard challenges?
>> Well, he always faced hard challenges
because he threw everything onto the
middle of the table in order to
challenge those challenges. and he did
it in Australia, he did it in the UK and
then he did it in the US. The biggest
risk taker that I know uh have known as
against a kind of hard ask risktaker who
would kerogenly
aortion risk whatever and grueling go
through it. Rupert was a joyous and is
still 94 a joyous risktaker and and and
I was lucky enough and again all my
life's serendipity and circumstance and
moment that when I met Rupert which is
when he bought an interest in the
company that I had just become the CEO
of 20th Century Fox. Uh, and I had
always wanted to start a fourth network
cuz I thought the three networks were
boring and I thought there ought to be
an alternative to them. And uh, and got
the opportunity and literally in a in in
in about an hour
less realistically. I told him the
concept of doing this fourth network and
he said, "Great." I said, "What do you
mean great?" He said, "Do it." I said,
'Well, we have to buy these stations.
It'll cost a billion,
150, and then it'll cost, I don't know,
150, 200. And he said,
>> do it.
>> What could be better?
>> There was a moment when um The Simpsons
and Home Alone together effectively
saved his bacon.
>> That's true.
>> What hap what was going on then? Why was
there Why was there so much risk? Why
did those things?
>> Well, what happened is like, you know, a
gambler,
industrial gambler, and someone who
keeps trying to change things, Murdoch
had overextended himself because he had
taken on huge amount of debt to start
satellite broadcasting in the UK. Uh
he'd taken on debt to buy TV Guide,
which at the time was like America's
Bible.
uh now of course kind of irrelevant and
he paid $3 billion for it uh which ended
up some years later to be relatively
worthless. So he had overextended
himself and the banks
uh didn't want to renew. It literally
was the renewal
of his entire loan package and there
were 50 banks I think that were involved
all over the world. And some of them had
very little exposure.
Big bank, big exposure all said yes. But
the smaller ones
said no, you're too much. You're too
much of a gambler. it's too dodgy and
we're not going to renew. And it
literally for about a year it teetered
on whether or not they'd renew these
loans. And since we didn't there was not
more credit. And because of the debt
repayments and all, cash
became extremely important to literally
to keep my lights on. and Home Alone,
which was this giant hit at the time,
>> and poured cash into the company. And we
weren't uh at that time we were uh we
were very cash positive Fox. So, it was
it wasn't Simpsons yet. Simpsons later
delivered huge returns, but it was the
cash basically from home alone that kept
the company from going dark before he
could refinance his loan package which
took place about a year later.
>> What was he like in that?
>> I have so much admiration for Rert. I
have some uh issues that are not
admirable about his conservativism, but
uh during that period he never
complained.
Uh he
suffered enormously but but his
character was that he would not show it
and he wouldn't complain and he wouldn't
blame others. Took full responsibility
for it. Yes, no favors. Yes, no
whatever. and uh uh and it was that
that's a great demonstration of
character.
>> How much did you and he care about money
as like a motivator?
>> For me, part of being in the movie
business, part of the fun of being in
the movie business is I love process.
And
>> another difference between us is he
doesn't like process. He wants basically
he has an idea. He wants to get to the
conclusion of the idea so he can move on
to the next idea. I love process. So you
make a movie, it's not an easy thing to
go through. Uh and usually when it's
more difficult, the movies come out
better. A happy set is a boring set.
Anyway, uh when you make a movie
in olden times before streaming,
whatever, you open it on a Friday night
and by Saturday, Sunday, this is again
before a lot of uh predictive stuff
comes along that can tell you what the
end gross is going to be. You literally
understand every theater in the US and
you get one by one the results from
these theaters as to how it's doing on
its first showing, its second showing,
third showing. That process
which either you're
building yourself into a success into a
into a hit movie because people are
going to see it or not.
That's a iterative processy thing and I
love that. I I the rhythm of it was
worth the candle of making the film
and I can't remember when in the early
days of Fox with Rupert. Uh
I think we were talking on a Sunday of
some movie. uh it was die hard and I'm
getting these hourly figures whatever
and and I I think for precautions how's
it doing and I said it's doing really
well and he said all right well so if
it's doing this how much will it make I
said what do you mean how much will it
make he said well no no let's let's take
the data of this and the data of that
and multiply it by whatever and well
what will be the final amount that it'll
make and it was Like [__] I know. I
don't want to know right now. I want to
enjoy the process of learning about it
as actual human people are coursing
through and sitting in those seats. All
he wanted to know give me the final
amount so I can take that amount and do
something else
>> and invest it somewhere else. So
>> did you ever care about money? Was it
ever a motivator?
>> Never. Ever. Ever. Now, you know, it's
like I mean, I'm an odd character
obviously cuz that there are definitely
some of us. Although, weirdly, people
who have grown up with wealth, they seem
to be very concentrated on wealth and
money means a lot to them, even if
they've got it. In my case, because it
was never an issue to me, I never cared
about it. So I have no
I had no practical necessity
and I say it's because I had no
practical. It was probably about other
things too. So since it never mattered
to me now do I like it? Yeah, sure.
>> But I have no interest in it.
>> I have no nominal interest in it
>> cuz it's never it's never been a marker
for me.
>> At the end of your executive run in
entertainment. you're 50ish or so in the
early 1990s. And there's this amazing
line in the book that said, you know,
basically you're you're thinking about
wanting to own and control this thing to
be independent. And and there's a line
either I am or I'm not.
>> It's just incredibly simple. What was
that leap like?
>> I was very successful, had been very
successful in multiple iterations of it,
but I'd always worked for companies. I I
was a corporatist. I worked for the
mother church, you know, in a way. And
and when you do that, uh if I think if
you're a good employee,
you think it's yours. You you do have an
illusion that oh, it's mine. It is an
illusion. Uh it is not clearly yours.
And and that illusion can be alive
forever and who cares. It's nice.
Nothing bad about it in any way. For me,
when I realized that it wasn't mine, but
I acted like it was mine, I thought, am
I capable of actually having something
that really is mine, that is independent
of the mother church of the corporation?
And so over a period of time, I didn't
want to leave Fox. I was doing very
well. I was very happy. I was
challenged. I was still doing
interesting stuff. But I thought I'm
either capable of being independent or
I'm not.
And
I got this thing in my head of this
binary. You either are or you're not.
>> And I couldn't turn away from it. I
mean, as much as I tried, I don't know
how much I really tried, but as much as
ideas or convictions do dissipate, the
you are or you're not, I could not
accept that I wasn't.
>> That was what it came I didn't want to
go. But once I realized this binary, you
are or you not, it forced me
>> into action I did not want to take.
>> And then everyone hated QVC, right?
>> Oh, yes. Well, then but then of course I
did leave and I left by design with uh a
blank piece of paper cuz I didn't want
to repeat myself and then I did go to
QVC which everyone thought I was insane.
>> You you described as being an internet
opportunist, not visionary. You did
something like 150 deals investments
coming out of QVC. I want to hear about
like how the hell you managed to do all
those deals. But starting with QVC, what
was so hard about it and the Home
Shopping Network which followed soon
thereafter? What what was like the
getting the flywheel going?
>> It wasn't hard actually. Oddly, it was
we created this business model that was
not Nothing with me is ever full-blown
at the first hour of the first day. But
uh we created this kind of conglomerate
that was an anti- conglomerate because
we've spun off 11 public companies over
the over the last I don't know 15 or so
years. But it was very iterative again
lucky in that I had this primitive
understanding of convergence and the
coming of the internet. The internet
came in 95.
There was so many possibilities,
so many ideas, the good from the bad,
and we picked more good than bad. And
they just came one after the other. They
were just the it was the ground was just
so fertile. I mean, that was the maybe
second revolution, and now we're
embarking on the third revolution. If
you want to be an AI opportunist, is the
lesson from that chapter that you should
do a lot of things that like you should
you should just be a bias to action and
to say yes rather than be nitpicky about
it?
>> We we were very picky because
unlike most people at the time who just
thought getting attention meaning every
one of the early internet almost
everyone wanted to go after volume
meaning
>> eyeballs. Exactly. more eyeballs you
could aggregate at at a a diseconomic
cost often. Uh and we thought no, we
treat revenue importantly as against
expenses. And so we didn't do those web
vanny things that were good but way very
much before their times and not not just
simply to aggregation of eyeballs. I the
same thing I listen what the screw do I
know about this but uh I would approach
this this this next super period uh in
the same way which would make me very
wary of
uh what now seems to be the cat's meow
which is huge expenditures in areas in
which there is no known revenue or no
known big revenue to relate to you
hundreds of billions of dollars of
investment,
you know, tell me tell me how
that actually is going to return. Now,
of course, some of it will, whatever,
but I would I would be I would be dodgy
about that.
>> In this chapter in the '9s, a whole new
cast of characters enters the scene.
There was this amazing Larry Ellison
interview on Charlie Rose where he
quotes you talking about Bill Gates,
which I found from like way way way back
when.
>> What did he do? and he said um it was
around the whole ticket master thing
which relates certainly to the AI you
know copyright stuff today kind of a
similar episode history repeating and
you said something very funny which was
like he's young he's mean and he's not
tired
>> all of those things definitely were true
actually that's not fair to Bill who I
like very much uh and I respect a great
deal usually I think people do not grow
I think They kind of by the time they're
>> sentient they're relatively fully.
>> Gates has grown in enormously in so many
areas
empathy, but he is he he he was mean
>> uh and relentless. He is no longer that.
He's a he he's a he's a solid citizen of
today and tomorrow.
>> Did you ever see anyone more competitive
and aggressive than him in his heyday
>> at that time? He was truly ferocious and
he understood leverage. Anybody who's in
any world uh of commanding
revolutionizing uh a world which Gates
certainly did uh
has got that quality.
>> Many people would love to be the person
that you were in the internet era for
this AI era. You did these 150 deals.
What was that process like? Like what
was the team like that found them? How
much of it did you just do yourself? We
never had a lot of people, but we had a
lot of stimulants and anybody who had an
idea was a good idea. You can't do good
ideas until you ratchet through a lot of
rotten ideas. And I've always thought
you got to be you you got to tolerate
stupidity cuz in any kind of argument
about what to do, what not to do,
future, whatever, you got to be stupid
before you're smart. So you got to go
through that process of allowing dumb
stuff to come out cuz in the dumb stuff
alongside of it is some little smart
thing and if you can
tease that one out and act on it, you
know, you got a shot.
>> Was there a defining early transaction
other than QVC and HSN in those days
that you think back on? There are the
early obvious ones now, but
uh uh match.com personals uh which which
was also was something at that time that
was uh very very
so early stage uh and so primitive and
again just a good idea
>> and there were players around it who had
not we had kind of rejected but then we
came on this tiny little company texas
called match.com and we bought it and
then it just spawned everything and then
you know one thing if you start in a
good arena
>> one thing spawns the next thing and out
of little match came all sorts of
different personals brands and then and
along came Tinder
>> this definition of an idea
uh that with no investment I don't know.
I think the investment in Tinder was
nickels, but absolutely virally just
shot to the skies.
>> You've got this interesting setup with
IA now. You've spun out all these
businesses. You you've been this amazing
capital allocator. One thing that's so
remarkable is Buffett's observed this
lots of times. Usually amazing
executives get to the promised land,
which is like tons of free cash flow
they can do something with, and now they
have to be an allocator and they stink
at it. And you had the opposite
experience. Arguably a better allocator
even than than executive. You're an
allocator again. I mean, it's amazing
that you're sort of still doing this
through IA. How do you think about that
job in this world?
>> I think I'm no longer qualified for it.
That's what I think. I think I'm
irrelevant to it.
>> Why? Why?
>> Because I don't want to do it anymore. I
mean, it's really for others to do. And
And I also think, you know, I have this
whole thing about dodging every aspect
of age and thinking about it and
conceptualizing, which I think is
horrible of thing to do. So I stay way
away from it. But the one thing I am
aware of for me, I still have a lot of
curiosity,
but this
world we're entering is too much for my
curiosity load
>> to relate to. I don't think I've ever
conceptualized that. Well, by the way,
this is why one of the things that
interested me, we bought 20 known 24% of
MGM. And why does that appeal to me?
Because you can't disintermediate it.
Because you give me any AI equation and
I will tell you irrelevant to this. No
one's going to get between going to an
MGM resort. Let's put particularly Las
Vegas in which we have a huge share of
Las Vegas. We have 11 properties in Las
Vegas. No tech is getting between that
and a human. And so I'm I'm actually
it's maybe going, you know, it's like
the Flintstones. I'm going back to the
>> I was going to say, yeah,
>> to the dark ages. But I think that that
to me because it is so unable to be
everything else in the world that I see
almost everything else is able to be
disintermediated by this that and the
other thing that isn't. And so it
fascinates me. Certainly understand how
like a visit to a place, a concert,
something live in person can't be. What
about like betting though like Poly
Market and Koshi and these markets like
people are glued to their phones, you
know, $10 million valuation today or
yesterday?
>> I think that's crazy.
>> Do do you think that's um a threat to a
major threat to MGM?
>> No. No. No. No.
>> Because people want to go.
>> People want to go. The gambling part of
it, it's certainly an important part of
the revenue, but it's not the most
important part. The thing is we have
these resorts that if you if you just
look at the depth and breadth in Las
Vegas, we have 490 restaurants. We have
125 performance venues from 25,000 seats
down to a few thousand seats. We have so
many ideas of things and places to do
and to go and to be and to enjoy and to
entertain and to all of those things.
Yeah, gaming's over here. Uh, but that's
the to me the plotting and and pleasure
of it.
>> The other person that I would argue
built the modern sort of media world
with you is John Malone uh who just came
out with the book as well.
>> Yes.
>> What was it like being
>> around him with him?
>> Malone was is is today I talked to John
frequently.
He's still the smartest one in the room.
I mean there's just no question his he
he he he he brings to it again you know
it's people's ingredients and their
history and whatever Johnson engineer by
training
uh but he is he has such pure uh ability
to analyze almost any situation because
he brings this engineer's frame with an
absolute
round understanding
of every technological ical possibility
that could possibly happen. And he can
mix all that
>> both horizontally and vertically.
>> And so when you're talking to him,
you're talking to it's really you're
talking to a master. It's a master
craftsman.
>> What did uh Lou Wasserman teach you
about negotiation?
>> Lou Wasserman was the legendary chairman
of MCA, which started this talent agency
and became Universal Studios and other
kinds of things. and uh I grew up with
his daughter as my friend and so I knew
him very young. But then when I was in
my 20s and negotiating movies, I went to
his office to kind of close one deal and
I said to him of the 60 some odd units
we were buying
because we were paying a big price. I
said, "Can you just give us one less?"
And he just looked at me. He said, "No."
And I said, "What do you mean no?" And
he said, "No."
And he kind of said, "That's it." And we
got up and walked the door. And he said
to me, "So, let me tell you something."
He said, "When you're in a negotiation,
you better be prepared if I say no to
blow the deal or you're never going to
get what you want." And it was the
greatest lesson in leverage and in
organizing in your brain how far you're
prepared to go. And if you if you must
and you must figure that out up front.
You draw a line and you must demonstrate
beyond that line, you will never go.
>> That's how I learned to negotiate.
>> How did you produce so many people that
have gone on to great things? Eisner
Diller Killers.
>> I don't produce them. I mean they grow
up in your environment and if you have I
like environments where in all those
cases just like me I was totally
unprepared and I had no reason for
anyone to give me any responsibility no
experience about anything right but I
got dropped in the deep end of the water
and I kind of figured out how to swim. I
like people coming into any orbit of
mine without any experience particularly
without any necessarily expertise
without having been quote made
uh at kind of the earliest stage and
then you give people more responsibility
than they qualify for
>> because in that forge you find out who
swims and who doesn't and if you have
that kind of environment
out of it's going to come pretty good
people.
>> What made Eisner so
>> Oh, Michael is just this big gy guy who
just his brain is so creative and his
mind is so fertile
>> that just out spins stuff faster than
his mouth can do it. Stuff comes out
little like that's goofy.
>> But the next thing is absolutely
brilliant. It's it's actual original
thought and he is capable of that. I
lost track of the Simpsons before, which
I think is the most profitable show
maybe ever
>> in history. Probably the most
>> longest running.
>> Yeah. Well, it's that, but it's also
probably the single most profitable
entertainment product ever invented.
>> What was it like at its origin?
>> Everybody thought it was stupid.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> And they thought it was stupid because
it was a cartoon.
>> Well, because yes, the last cartoon was
as wrapped the the the Flintstones
before was like I don't know 20 30 years
before we put the Simpsons on. So we
just thought, are you crazy? You're
going to do a halfhour,
you know, television that a cartoon
about these characters, the Simpsons.
And the first screening we had was with
a bunch of suits, but executives from
Fox. Uh, and they said, "Well, you can't
put this thing on the air. I mean, you
must be nuts. I mean,
>> you just liked it.
>> Well, Jim Brooks, who is the creative
force of this along with Matt Gring, but
uh and I were in this screening and as
you making things and particularly
comedies
and you're in a room with other people
and you're involved in the making of the
thing, you laugh harder at things. You
you kind of wanting to create laughter
so that other people will laugh. So,
you're kind of overengaged. And so
there, Jim and I are laughing. We, by
the way, had long stopped laughing at
this stuff cuz we'd seen it a h 100
times.
And we're laughing to create with these
12 suits some laughter in the room. And
they're just solid hunks, not even
moving. It was so sad. And uh and
afterwards, they said, "Well, you know,
we're not we're not successful enough to
just write this off. I don't know what
you're going to do with this. You
certainly can't put it on the air." And
of course, like many things, from the
first hour of the first day that went on
the air, it was a smash.
>> I mean, it's been running ever since.
And most profitable thing ever. How
through the lens of The Simpsons, how do
you think about the world of
entertainment today? Like, there's just
nothing. It just seems like nothing like
that will ever happen again.
>> Oh, no. You know, I don't know that
that's true. I just think that that that
now I mean by then there's some cable
networks around had gotten successful
but that was a time when there were
fewer options there were still
reasonable number of options today the
options are so unlimited there's just so
much out there whether your time is
spent on Tik Tok or Insta or watching
television programs and uh streamers and
this and that. If you make an
entertainment product, a movie or a
television series, the amount of people
who see it is your revenue stream there
your reaction. You go back to the olden
times of today's times rarely but in
theaters people coming into the place
sitting in seats and they like it and
they pay their money and whatever and
you see them and they leave and they
come and they leave and they come.
How do you deal when the business model
instead
of being the audience reaction to it is
to take a subscription to Prime
whose business model is to get you to
buy products on Amazon
where they offer you on the side
>> amazing movies,
>> movies and television programs. They
could not care less whether one person
or 9 billion people see it. It's just
whether or not we get more Prime
subscriptions or the Apple environment
which is which is keep you in the closed
circle of Apple rather than any one
thing that you want. So if you're a
maker of these things or if you're in
the vineyard of trying to create this
stuff, it it it's just dismaying that
the business models are just so vastly
different. It's not the best environment
for making work.
>> If you add Netflix into that category,
>> well, yes, of course Netflix is in that
>> Netflix is the leader of it. Hollywood
is irrelevant.
>> Worse than
>> No, I mean it's Yes, it's not. And
people yell at me for saying that. Like
I'm first of all it used to be that all
these companies did was make movies and
television shows from the top of their
executives to the bottom. Now
making the product is the 68th or 78th
division inside very large enterprises.
So it's just so down on the totem pole
>> of stuff that it just makes the process
and it's it's not
Yeah. Look,
the fun of it is mostly as it as an
organizing process. The fun of it is
gone.
>> Is glamour gone too?
>> N gone. It's just now in other areas.
>> Where is that? Where is glamour?
>> Certainly not. It's not in
>> It was Hollywood. where it was but
that's you know now it's dispersed of
course now it's probably in Instagram
you know it's in other things but it's
it's not that it's the whole hedgeimony
has now
uh been transferred to the world of big
tech and is this going to be true and
this is the probably biggest question of
AI
>> because it is possible that our entire
worlds will be subsumed by further
advances, AI advances of big tech, in
which case in the end, we'll all be a
simulation anyway. And as one of my
friends said, we'll maybe come, we'll
maybe have a happy ending.
>> I saw these uh that's funny. I saw these
amazing photo spreads from Sun Valley in
like the '9s when entertainment was in
its like
>> complete ascendance and blooming.
>> You've been to these conf these sorts of
conferences your whole life. Does it now
just feel like that center of gravity is
entirely shifted to tech and and the
entertainment people
>> completely completely shifted
>> and after they are it is true the
cultural stuff aside uh and and maybe
it's just an old dog talking but it the
the the the
fact that it has dispersed so that there
is there's just so much now there's so
much optionality
that everything comes and goes so
quickly you It used to be there was a
cultural event
uh take take uh one of the great
cultural events of this of uh which was
roots
>> uh which
was the seinal thing that went for 11
nights and captured 45 50% of the
population of this country
and lived in the cultural environment
for months.
You know, you do good work today, it's
here today, it's gone in the next hour.
>> So, you got MGM dot dash Meredith was
just renamed people. Yes.
>> Talk about that business and in print
it's print media, you know, in many
cases like how have you made this a
strong such a strong it feels like an
anacronism and yet it's a really strong
business.
>> Yeah.
>> How did you do that?
Well, we're doing it. I hope I spent
actually just before I got here two
hours with Travel Leisure,
>> which is doing extremely well. And yet
publishing all publishers, what's
happening with Google is just it is
going, you know, they say it goes slow
and then it goes fast. It's going fast.
I mean, it really is. And
>> if you depend on your life traffic from
Google, from search, you're going to be
close to extinct if that's what you do.
Uh and that's a huge issue but directly
to the question and so we were talking
and this one magazine of ours doing very
well million subscriptions extremely
strong digital life whatever and but
nevertheless it's got this Google parad
paradox hardly which is direct searches
are dying going so I said to to the
creator creatative people. I said, you
know, don't you have to kind of invert
your business? You know, you create
content from People magazine to food and
wine to all these areas. This incredible
gold mine of of content of ideas and and
of subject areas, etc. And you publish
them in both print and
make 10 million copies a year. It's more
than that. Anyway, whatever. We still
have a print business and a big digital
business
and they're doing really well at it.
Certainly, far better than their
competition. But I said, back up four
years ago, 5 years ago, and you're a
travel and leisure.
So, you know something about the travel
business and you know that lure.
How come you didn't create White Lotus?
How come it didn't come out of you?
Because think of what would have
happened if it did come out of you.
And there's no reason it didn't other
than you have not inverted your
business. We own food and wine.
Why didn't if you're in the food and
wine business, liquor business or the
whatever drinking business
and you know a lot about that, you know
where trends are and you know what's
happening.
How come you didn't do casamos?
So if you think about our businesses
that way, then you get you succeed and
fail, but you come up with hundreds of
things to pursue
>> that if some of them work out, you build
a giant company anyway.
>> So the media becomes the marketing.
>> Exactly.